All right, lesson two of design.
We are going to dive into wire framing.
So the term wire framing is essentially to put in the bones or the skeleton of
your app.
Now in the previous lesson we went over the basics of Figma, now we're going to
get into
actual app design.
So there are three primary steps here that I employ.
The first one is to define the core actions and user journey.
You should have done some of this already in the process of ideation, but it's
worth
doing again as you begin wire framing.
Next a core element of wire framing is to start with low fidelity.
Wire frames are low fidelity.
Low fidelity means that you're not worried about colors or corner radiuses and
whatnot,
even though I showed you that in the previous lesson, unimportant.
What we're really focused on is what goes where, right?
User experience.
What elements go and what spots and what they lead to and the sort of actions
and transformations
that are performed by the software on the user input data, whatever it may be.
The third is kits.
I love this term.
I try to remind myself of it every single day, which is keep it simple, stupid.
This is an acronym that applies to so much in life.
I was, we were filming a podcast today and I made the remark that it's
interesting to
see how many indie hackers and software developers employ very complex app
store optimization
and sort of, you know, hacky, not hacky, but complex design techniques and
engineering,
and yet they're at $400 in MRR or monthly recurring revenue.
Meanwhile when I launched RizGPT, we hit over $80,000 a month within just three
days because
we kept it super simple and we focused on the things that mattered, which at
the time was
distribution and going viral and getting money in the door so that we could use
that cash
to deploy for future growth.
So the same way that it applies to how you operate your business, it really
applies to
the start of design and wireframing.
Complexity will only increase as you go throughout the process of designing
your app.
You're going to continue to add and add and add screens.
It's a lot easier to start simple and slowly expand than to start complex and
then make
it simple.
I see people all the time, they start with this incredibly complicated app.
I'm like, dude, I don't even fucking know how to use this, right?
It should be like a three year old should be able to use your product or, you
know, maybe
more realistically, I think a term I've used is your product should be able to
be used
by a seven and a 70 year old.
So for many reasons, keep it simple.
One reason that it's really important to begin wireframing as quickly as
possible is
in my opinion, it is required if you want people to actually believe in your
vision.
If people hit me up all the time to say, hey, man, can you review my idea?
Like I want to build this app, blah, blah, blah.
I go, yes, send me the Figma file and it's silence, right?
They don't have it.
I'm like, man, wireframing should take you no more than a couple of minutes.
If you're really just trying to move as quickly as possible and it will make
the vision much
more clear for anyone that sees it, right?
So more data means more informed decision making, both for yourself and others.
All right.
Enough of the background.
Let's get into it.
All right.
So context real quick.
I'm coming into this with pretty much no preconceived notions.
I want this to be raw and authentic rather than planned out.
And so I'm going to try to walk you guys through my thought process.
What this means is I'm not going to design an entire application within these
lessons,
but I'm going to share you with you guys how I think about the design.
Okay.
So honestly, here I want to start with text.
I almost always do this.
I'm going to increase the size of this so it's a little bit more visible.
Let's go even more honestly.
Okay.
So later on, we're going to define it in the, I think, two lessons from now, we
're going
to go deeper into core or primary and secondary actions.
But for now, as we begin wireframing, I'm just going to kind of jot down a
couple of
actions.
So this might be a little bit too big.
Yeah, I like this actions.
All right.
So if we're trying to help people increase their testosterone, right, this is
the problem
that we're solving, we should first think about what do we need from the
individual,
right?
One of the major advantages of applications as a whole is that they're
interactive, right?
It's not just text or an article where you come into this product and then it's
just
everything's prepackaged, right?
We can add interactions.
And so for here, I think that the first thing is getting data from the
individual.
So we want to improve testosterone.
I think I'm going to jot down some things that are valuable.
I might make this even smaller.
So I'm going to be typing and get them out.
Uh, self, selfie of face, picture of body.
Um, demographic.
And then so demographic, meaning age, gender, I think that this will be pretty
much all
men.
So we're not going to, we're just going to assume that their male, their female
that
wants to optimize their testosterone for whatever reason that, you know, maybe
that won't be
great for them.
So so we can just chop this down to age, race, race.
I don't know the degree to which testosterone is correlated with race, but
could be important.
And then let's see, like a lifestyle, right?
So how often do you exercise?
What sort of food do you eat?
Okay, I think this is kind of like the core information that we want to get
from the individual.
So you know, these aren't actions themselves.
So the action here would be, um, receive in analysis, um, or input your data.
Okay.
Now anytime that we have an action that the user takes, we should think about
what, what
is the result, right?
Here we're getting the, the inputs from the user.
So what is the output going to be?
Mm.
Um, we can do UMAX style.
So UMAX you get, you get face ratings and recommendations.
So we'll do, um, what are some things that people are interested in, right?
We're probably interested in, uh, so now we'll do output, um, of the data.
So this will be the analysis.
People are interested in estimated testosterone.
I think that that is the most obvious one to start, um, maybe biological age,
depending
on the questions that we ask that could be pretty interesting.
Um, so these are the more predictive components.
Maybe like a masculinity score, but that's just kind of an estimated
testosterone.
Percentile, we should add that in the estimated testosterone percentile
relative to age.
Okay.
I think that that, hmm.
Yeah.
So this is like the sort of like rating, right?
These are like the predictions that we're making, the scores that we're giving
to the
individual and next we have recommendations.
So one component here to think about is like, how do we make the
recommendations personalized
rather than just like, how often do you exercise one time per week?
And then the recommendation is just exercise more, you know, that's kind of
obvious.
Um, so I think that this is where the selfie and body come into play.
Oh, so we should do, uh, we should do, um, physique rating.
You can even do facial rating.
So beyond just the estimated testosterone, right?
This is all encompassing.
These would be more specific.
All right.
So we're going to take all this and we're actually going to all nest this under
.
Um, this will be the analysis, we'll say.
So that within the output, we have the analysis and we have the recommendations
.
Okay.
So recommendations, um, based on body slash.
So actually we don't have to explain the methodology of how we produce it, but
exercise
frequency sleep improvement.
Um, you know, when we make this beyond just test max, like maybe we make this
like a holistic
version of UMAX, right?
This is what UMAX was always kind of intended to be.
All right.
Um, obviously sleep, but the, yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
Oh, yeah.
Okay.
Something that you might notice is that like while I'm explaining and going
through this
process, I'm significantly less, um, structured or clear thinking as I usually
am, or at
least strive to be part of that reason is because this is inherently very, it's
a very
creative endeavor and there's going to be a lot of iteration in trying to
figure out
what the correct inputs and outputs look like as well as a sort of
functionality.
Okay.
And so once you get this output, I think the important component here is
something along
the lines of habit tracking and accountability.
So accountability plus tracking.
So, um, this is why it's very important to get screenshots of comparable apps.
Once again, like I would have way more, I'd have like 100 plus screenshots.
If I were actually going through the full process of building that myself.
Um, but I really like what quitter has here.
And I think Opal has something similar to, which is like the core functionality
, like
the first fucking thing that you see when you open the app is your streak.
And I think that that's, that's pretty important here and valuable.
Okay.
So in the previous lesson, we did some basic, uh, sort of mocking of resigning
UMAX.
We're going to do somewhat similar design here, but it's going to be different,
right?
We're not just redesigning UMAX.
So I think I kind of want to merge UMAX and quitter.
All right.
I'm not certain what I want the core UI displayed to be right here.
I don't know if it's the streak or your current estimated testosterone or maybe
both.
Maybe it could be actions remaining for the day.
So maybe we go more habit tracker style.
It could be interesting to have percent completion and we show that through the
previous days
and we can fill it up.
I want to do this right.
And yet at the same time.
I want to move relatively quickly.
Okay, let's do this.
So at the top, we're going to do the streak.
We'll just do pretty basic.
Um, here I'm going to create a component or a frame so that I can auto layout
and then
just bang, bang, bang, bang.
That should be seven.
We'll maybe increase the size of this a little bit.
And I'll add a note here and this is, um, a week layout.
So I'll add these comments.
If I'm working with someone, either a designer or a co-founder, it's very
important to have
comments here as you're going through the process of wireframing so they know
what you're
actually building out.
Now I think maybe some text along the lines of like, maybe we say like you, um,
maybe we
give like a percent score.
This could be interesting.
Let me, um, bring this in a little bit.
All right, let's do a little percent score.
I know like more common is streak, right?
And I think that streak is good, but I want something that's like, uh, you know
, maybe
it's, um, I want like a number, you know, I want something where you're like, I
need
to ensure that I'm hitting this every single day.
So right.
So for quitter, they have the amount of time that you've been free from porn
for Cal AI.
We have your daily calories.
For UMAX, I actually think that this was a major shortcoming, which was that we
did not
have a sort of core action to return to.
We had this daily tab here, which was kind of a routine, but the fact that that
wasn't
on the first page, it was a major issue.
Okay, we'll leave this for now.
This will, um, I'll just add a note.
I'll be like, want something catchy here.
Okay.
And then your actual actions will be your routine.
Right.
So we'll have here, uh, so that, uh, whoa, what did I do here?
Action one.
Action two and so forth.
Man.
Cool.
Don't worry about the like little thing myself that I'm doing with the
components and what
not.
You don't know how to do it, no worries, you'll learn with time.
I'm not elected with Figma, right?
Okay.
All right.
So the core sort of habits here.
Maybe I should have named these habits and cares.
And then I kind of like what quitter does here with like the panic button at
the bottom.
Um, we want the analysis to be obvious enough.
So this will probably be when the individual has already, when the individual
has already
sort of, uh, perform their first analysis because that will set their habits.
But if they have not completed their habits, we'll say, well, maybe do the UMAX
style.
Repeat your first analysis.
All right.
So we'll change this.
This will just be like button.
Cool.
One more thing.
Oops.
Okay.
So when you have not performed your first analysis, it'll ask you to start.
Once you have performed it, the core action will be the number of habits that
you have.
Um, we'll just rename this to actions, the number of actions that you have
remaining
for the day.
You can go ahead and frame this, so I'll make it nice and pretty.
And then I'm just going to center that real quick.
Sorry, I'm being a little bit of a perfectionist here, uh, which is somewhat
ironic because
wireframing is obviously imperfect.
Um, great.
Now what I have here is I'd like the basic skeleton for the core functionality
of the
app.
We have the homepage where if you haven't scanned it prompts you to start, we
would then have
some sort of upload flow, right?
So that would come in between these two.
So move this on over insert upload flow.
And then we have this.
And to be honest, like this is all that you really need to know when it comes
to wireframing.
Uh, there's a good amount of theory and we'll touch on that a little bit more
in the next
unit of this module for design.
Um, but I think that it covers the high level.
Take screenshots of other apps, clearly define what your actions are within the
product and
keep it as simple as possible to start and then whip up your first couple of
screens.
In the next lesson, we're going to go over hiring a designer.
So honestly, screens like this are more than enough to begin, uh, working with
a designer.
I've worked on a working with the designers with screen much less than this
before, to
be honest, like as little as this, honestly.
Um, now the reason that I try to hire a designer pretty quickly in the pro
project is if you
want to move as fast as possible and you're not constrained by capital, I'm
sure some people
here are that's fine.
We did not hire one for plug AI actually ever.
Um, then as soon as you, as soon as you figure out what the kind of like, uh,
even just one
screen of the app is going to look like, you explain the project to a bunch of
designers.
You can start testing, figuring out who's best.
Um, once again, we're going to go over this in the next lesson, but yep, this
is essentially
my process for wireframing.
See you guys, uh, see you guys later.